add market history (#174)
esi/esi-docs: docs/services/esi/endpoints/markethistory.md

---
title: Market history endpoint
---
# Market history

> [This endpoint](https://esi.evetech.net/ui/#/Market/get_markets_region_id_history) serves the regional markets' historical data statistics, per type.

Author: no, the parameters are the type and the region for the regional market.

They are listed with day.

## Response information

> This paths returns the data from the Eve's monolith as-is, and therefore contains the same issues. Typically, `lowest` and `highest` are not the actual lowest and highest prices, but values tinkered by CCP's daily summarizing process. Those returned values can be very far from the actual ones, the actual way those values are created is not explained by CCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This path returns the data from the EVE's monolith as-is, and therefore contains the same issues. Typically, `lowest` and `highest` are not the actual lowest and highest prices, but values tinkered by CCP's daily summarizing process. Those returned values can be far from the actual ones. The way these values are created is not explained by CCP.
```

While the returned entries are usually sorted by date ASC, nothing in the specs enforces this, so this behaviour is not an actual rule. If you want to have the last or first data, you **should** sort them.

Days with no sale are not represented in the reponse, while they are present with a 0 volume in the game, assuming prior information exists.

> The response does not contain today's value that is shown in-game. This value is indeed processed at the end of the next day. The response may not contain the previous day's values either, eg [Tritanium(34) in The Forge(10000002)](https://esi.evetech.net/latest/markets/10000002/history/?datasource=tranquility&type_id=34) may have values up to two days before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response does not contain today's value that is shown in-game. This value is indeed processed at the end of the next day. The response may not contain the previous day's values either, eg [Tritanium (34) in The Forge(10000002)](https://esi.evetech.net/latest/markets/10000002/history/?datasource=tranquility&type_id=34) may have values up to two days before.
```
